blog: add testground highlights 2022 (#506)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/2022-12-07-testground-in-2022.md

---
tags:
- Testground
title: "Highlights of Testground 2022"
description: "Testground is a platform for testing and benchmarking distributed systems. This year, the IPDX team re-ignited the project."
date: 2022-12-07
permalink: "/testground-highlights-in-2022/"
translationKey: ''
header_image: /libp2p-day-blog-header.png
author: Laurent Senta
---

![](../assets/2022-12-07-testground-logo.png)

Testground is a platform for testing and benchmarking distributed systems. We used it before to work on massive improvements to IPFS DHT, Filecoin Network, and libp2p. This year, the IPDX team re-ignited the project. We started two collaborations, created a new use case for interoperability testing, and welcomed new users and contributors.

Now that the end of the year is near; it is time for a “bragging session” and to share our master plan to take over the CIs of the entire Protocol Labs Network!

[[toc]]

> ## A new use case: interoperability testing for the libp2p team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A new use case: interoperability testing for [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/)

We also [presented this project during IPFS camp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2SkC4dYV-A) (Youtube).

## Massive stability improvements for supported SDKs

Testground has an issue with Flakiness. Our second focus is to improve the project's stability.

**Milestones:**

- **A refreshed Docker Runner**: to support new languages better and fix concurrency issues, we [rewrote the Docker Runner](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1407#issuecomment-1203853804). In our tests, **false negatives went from 40% to <1%.**
- **Benchmarking and stability improvements:** we've implemented tooling and [fixes](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1421) that help with CI [testing](https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+merged%3A%3E%3D2022-01-01). Some of this work will soon become part of the Testground Stability Dashboard and custom CI actions.

## EKS Support

Testground is also designed to run on large Kubernetes clusters. With EKS, we hope to support large-scale tests (10k+ nodes) with low operational costs ([EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) is a managed service from AWS).

**Milestones:**

> - **Preview Support for EKS:** The Bloxico Team has been working hard on [Testground EKS Support](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1350) and [Deployments](https://github.com/testground/infra/pull/78). They picked new CNI configurations and made sure the infrastructure was now deployable. This work was merged, and other teams, such as Celestia, have been building on top of it.

Reviewer: Proposing to make it clearer what 2 parts of Bloxico's work were because it wasn't immediately obvious even to me:
```suggestion
- **Preview Support for EKS:** The [Bloxico team](https://bloxico.com/) has been working hard on [Testground EKS support](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1350) and [EKS infrastructure setup for Testground](https://github.com/testground/infra/pull/78). A working alpha setup is now available. Other teams, such as [Celestia](https://celestia.org/), are already building on top of it.
```

> <aside>
> 
> <div class="block w-full p-6 bg-white border border-gray-200 rounded-lg shadow-md dark:bg-gray-800 dark:border-gray-700">
> <h5 class="mb-2 text-2xl font-bold tracking-tight text-gray-900 dark:text-white">This is just an excerpt!</h5>
> <p class="font-normal text-gray-700 dark:text-gray-400">

Reviewer: This one depends on how this is going to get rendered. I'm proposing to turn it into a heading based on how GitHub Markdown renders it - the section looks like continuation of EKS Support which it is not.
```suggestion
## And sooooo much more!
```

Author: Arr, I couldn't find an `aside` and I tried to introduce some hierarchy in the blog post, it's rendered like this:

<img width="1129" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-15 at 13 39 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1136669/207861649-3a09ea01-ccfe-4c8d-a313-659db7b575d1.png">

✨  The team also dusted off [SDKs](https://github.com/testground/sdk-js/pull/22) and [examples](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1306), helped [improve ARM support](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1372). We introduced new [features](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1481), [bug fixes](https://github.com/testground/testground/pull/1321), and [brought many more improvements](https://github.com/testground/testground/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+merged%3A%3E2022-01-01+).
    

> </p>
> </div>
> 
> 
> </aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## New Users

> New users and contributors are joining the project; They are using Testground and contributing to the project.

Reviewer: Proposing deduplication ;)
```suggestion
New users and contributors are joining the project!
```

> - **Celestia** is using Testground to [test their network](https://github.com/celestiaorg/test-infra). Building on top of our "EKS Preview", they simulate between 4 and 6 thousand nodes on a large Kubernetes Cluster.

Reviewer: Do you know if section links will work in a blog post?
```suggestion
- [**Celestia**](https://celestia.org/) is using Testground to [test their network](https://github.com/celestiaorg/test-infra). Building on top of our [EKS Preview](#eks-preview), they simulate between 4 and 6 thousand nodes.
```

> - **Magmo** is using Testground to test and benchmark their payment channel. They had success with stability and performance measurements. They shared a (great) presentation during [Retrieval Markets Summit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xYn8Evkrs30) (Youtube).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Magmo**](https://magmo.com/) is using Testground to test and benchmark their payment channel. They had success with stability and performance measurements. They shared an excellent presentation during [Retrieval Markets Summit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xYn8Evkrs30) (Youtube).
```

> - **status.im** is [working](https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/pull/70) on adding their nim implementation to the libp2p interoperability repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**status.im**](https://status.im/) is [working](https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/pull/70) on adding their nim implementation to the libp2p interoperability repository.
```

> - **Sigma Prime** is using Testground to [test their implementation](https://github.com/ackintosh/discv5-testground) of Ethereum's Peer Discovery Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Sigma Prime**](https://sigmaprime.io/) is using Testground to [test their implementation](https://github.com/ackintosh/discv5-testground) of Ethereum's Peer Discovery Protocol.
```

> - **The number0 team** uses Testground to benchmark Iroh, an IPFS implementation written in Rust focused on efficiency. They share numbers on [their website](https://iroh.computer/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**number0**](https://n0.computer/) uses Testground to benchmark [iroh](https://iroh.computer/), an IPFS implementation written in Rust focused on efficiency. They share numbers on [their website](https://iroh.computer/).
```

> - **The Moving the Bytes Working Group** uses Testground to benchmark and test bitswap and new protocols for data exchange. You can follow along in [Notion](https://www.notion.so/MTB-WG-Meeting-1-cfeed84309894936bd652f1b47f3221a) and join the `#move-the-bytes-wg` channel on FIL Slack.

Reviewer: FYI, the Notion page requires login to view. Might be fine but I wanted to point it out because I think you can create a link that's generally available. 
```suggestion
- **Moving the Bytes Working Group** uses Testground to benchmark and test bitswap and new protocols for data exchange. You can follow along in [Notion](https://www.notion.so/MTB-WG-Meeting-1-cfeed84309894936bd652f1b47f3221a) and join the [#move-the-bytes-wg](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C04A22DCQCF) channel on FIL Slack.
```

## What's Next

> We shared a [Roadmap](https://github.com/testground/testground/blob/master/ROADMAP.md) for what is coming to Testground in 2023. Here is an excerpt

Reviewer: Just personal preference here:
```suggestion
We shared a [Roadmap](https://github.com/testground/testground/blob/master/ROADMAP.md) for what is coming to Testground in 2023. Here are the highlights.
```

> - **Better Network Simulation & Many More features:** We plan on improving [network simulations](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1488) for libp2p and the Move The Bytes WG. We are also adding the ability to run [more complex test plans](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1493) and [browser support](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1386). Testground improves the fastest when it’s “customer-driven”.

Reviewer: Consistency proposal:
```suggestion
- **Better Network Simulation & New Features:** We plan on improving [network simulation](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1488) for libp2p and the Move The Bytes WG. We are also adding the ability to run [more complex test plans](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1493) and [browser support](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1386). Testground improves the fastest when it’s “customer-driven”.
```

> - **Testing, Stability, and Workflows improvement:** the team [will invest](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1512) in bringing Testground building and testing tools to a state where it's easy & efficient to contribute. We want to improve the scale and stability of changes we can make, encourage external contributions, and communicate clearly about stability & regressions.

Reviewer: Consistency proposal:
```suggestion
- **Testing, Stability, and Workflows Improvements:** the team [will invest](https://github.com/testground/testground/issues/1512) in bringing Testground building and testing tools to a state where it's easy & efficient to contribute. We want to improve the scale and stability of changes we can make, encourage external contributions, and communicate clearly about stability & regressions.
```

<div class="blog type-rich block w-full p-6 bg-white border border-gray-200 rounded-lg shadow-md dark:bg-gray-800 dark:border-gray-700">

> ✨ Testground is like that kid in the back of the class, *"great potential, needs more attention.”* We believe it's brilliant, and we'd like to encourage you to *join us*!

Reviewer: You can't have too many links, right? 😜 
```suggestion
✨ Testground is like that kid in the back of the class, *"great potential, needs more attention.”* We believe it's brilliant, and we'd like to encourage you to [**join us**](https://docs.testground.ai/v/master/table-of-contents/readme/community)!
```
